Host Isolation (#845)
elastic/security-docs: docs/management/admin/host-isolation-ov.asciidoc

[[host-isolation-ov]]
[chapter, role="xpack"]
= Host isolation

> Host isolation allows you to isolate Windows and macOS hosts from your network, blocking communication with any other hosts on your network until the host is released. Isolating a host is useful for responding to malicious activity or preventing potential attacks, as it prevents lateral movement across other hosts. After hosts are isolated, they can still send data to {es} and {kib}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Host isolation allows you to isolate Windows and macOS hosts from your network, blocking communication with any other hosts on your network until the host is released. Isolating a host is useful for responding to malicious activity or preventing potential attacks, as it prevents lateral movement across other hosts. Isolated hosts can still send data to {es} and {kib}.
```

NOTE: To isolate and release hosts, you must have the built-in superuser role. For more information, see {ref}/built-in-users.html[Built-in users].

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/isolated-host.png[Shows a host that's been isolated]

You can isolate a host via an alert attached to a case or from the Endpoints list. Once a host is successfully isolated, an *Isolated* status displays next to the *Agent Status* field, which you can view on the alert details flyout or Endpoints list table.

> TIP: If the request fails, verify that the Agent and your endpoint are both online before trying again.

Reviewer: Still not 100% on case, but let's lowercase it for now. Its proper noun `Elastic Agent` {agent} is title case. 
```suggestion
TIP: If the request fails, verify that the agent and your endpoint are both online before trying again.
```

. Click *Take action -> Isolate*.
. Enter a comment describing why you’re isolating the host (optional).
. Click *Confirm*.

To isolate a host from an endpoint:

. Go to *Manage -> Endpoints*, then select the appropriate host name in the Hostname column. The Hostname details flyout opens.
. Click *Take action -> Isolate*.
. Enter a comment describing why you’re isolating the host (optional).
. Click *Confirm*.
. After the host is successfully isolated, an *Isolated* status is added next to the *Agent Status*.

After the host is successfully isolated, an *Isolated* status is added next to the *Agent Status*.

[discrete]
[[release-a-host]]
== Release a host

To release a host from a case alert:

. Go to *Investigate -> Cases*, then click on the appropriate case to view the case activity its details.
. Find the appropriate alert, then click the *Show alert details* button *(>)*. The alert details flyout opens.
. From the alert details flyout, click *Take action > Release host*.

To release a host from an endpoint:

. Go to *Manage -> Endpoints*, then select the appropriate host name in the Hostname column. The Hostname details flyout opens.
. Click *Take action -> Release host*.

> After the host is successfully released, the *Isolated* status is removed from the *Agent Status*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the host is successfully released, the `Isolated` status is removed from the *Agent Status*.
```

[discrete]
[[view-host-isolation-details]]
== View host isolation details

> The host activity log tracks all actions performed on the host, including who made the host isolation request, when they made it, comments they provided, and when the host received the request to isolate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The host activity log tracks all actions performed on the host, including who made the host isolation request and when, comments added, and when the host received the request to isolate.
```
